---
layout: post
title: Speeding Up Videos with FFMPEG
---


Say you want to speed up or slow down a video on linux. You have a couple of options. You can go with a traditional video editor like OpenShot or Blender, or you can try your luck on the command line. I needed to speed up a video yesterday, and I tried most of these approaches.

## Open Shot

Honestly, I don't think I can use OpenShot. It kept screwing up on me. The 
video preview ceased to work, by that I mean it didn't play videos anymore. I just couldn't get it to work consitently.

## Blender

Well. Blender. Someday soon, someone will write a graphics UI so complicated, so dense that someone will write another graphical UI so serve as a user facing layer. It will probably be for Blender. I tried working with it, using a very nice blog post.

You click on a small button on the top which enters you into video editing mode. Then you click on the add button which is hidden amidst the dense foliage of words and icons. Then you add your video. Then you go to 'strip' and make a metastrip to combine audio and video. Then you go to strip-addeffects-time or something, and add a time speed up strip. Something something involving keyframes. At this point, I had accidently opened another window, so I minimized it, but
found another window behind that, and tried to minimize it, but there were just more windows. I closed Blender in fear. 

I eventually got it to work, but for some reason my sped up video had an additional 5 seconds of darkness added to it. I don't know why.

## MENCODER

I tried using mencoder to speed up a film by a factor of 72, but it completely borked. 
'''

mencoder -speed 72 SN004_Thermo_thin\ bubble.wmv -ovc copy -nosound -o output.wmv

'''

I think what happened was that it had correctly rendered everything, but that meant a framerate of 24 by 72, which is very big and VLC probably has trouble showing me. That's my guess, as VLC just showed me one frame for ten seconds when I viewed it, BUT, when I manually clicked on different places in the video timeline I could skip to different manual frames.


## FFMPEG

I have fond memories of ffmpeg. Converting downloaded movies in their .avi format to something that could play on my ipod classic. Getting the aspect ratio right, the formatting. The long line of dense code that I could only understand in the periphery.

Anyway, ffmpeg worked. It was hard actually. Due to a tif in the ubuntu community you can't actually get real ffmpeg on trusty ubuntu, which is what I am using. So you have to do this sketchy ppa thing, where you ask a dude named micheal to please directly connect to my computer and give me ffmpeg. 

I finally got it to work, but I had a lot of difficulty. What was happening was that I would speed up the film, but the duration was being incorrectly reported. So my film would finish in five seconds, but there would be a blank frame playing for 6 more minutes. I originally thought this was because the way ffmpeg speeds up films is by using a weird filter. I don't understand it, but by changing some metadata flag you can get the frames to display faster, but the actual framerate
doesn't change. So, I think ffmpeg just drops frames to make it work? But you can force the framerate to change as well, but then I think you end up back with the mencoder problem.

This is the code I used:

'''
ffmpeg -i SN004_Thermo_thin\ bubble.wmv  -filter:v "setpts=(PTS/10)" output10.wmv

'''

Anyway, the duration wasn't being reported right. I finally figured it out though, the audio channel wasn't being sped up. So, if you add the -an flag, ffmpeg gets rid of the audio channel, and you get the right duration. I didn't notice, because my original video didn't have any sound on its audio channel.

So, to correctly speed up a video in ffmpeg, use the following code

'''

ffmpeg -i SN004_Thermo_thin\ bubble.wmv -an  -filter:v "setpts=(PTS/10)" output10.wmv

'''

Other blogs can explain the flags to you. I just wanted to note that if you are getting the wrong duration, try disabling your audio channel.


