---
layout: post
---

I've been trying to make myself a better person lately. For some reason, I am trying to do this by reading poetry. So, like any good Millenial, I googled *Best Poetry of All Time*. Feeling sure of myself, I went to the library, excited at the thought of being able to recite Whitman or T. S. Eliot at the next party-- impressing my peers with my brooding sensitivity.

Then I cracked open *Leaves of Grass*. I tried to make myself enjoy it, the way I tried with Scotch.  But honestly, I thought it was bad. I just chose random poems to read, and most of them seemed to be about how great America/Democracy is. I just googled *Best Walt Whitman Poems* to double check that I wasn't just landing on his stinkers, but no-- all of his famous poems are about America. 

I think, in context, he has some great imagery and lines. But, maybe it is a different time, or the fact that I'm not American, but I just couldn't get into it. I get that American's are proud of their country, but as someone whose always felt a little awkward whenever "I'm Proud To Be An American" comes on during a hockey game, I'm not sure I'm the right audience. I've filed *Leaves of Grass* away under, "Everyone says its great, but I'm not the right audience, so I'll take their
    word for it."

Then Eliot. All the poetry blogs said "Read the Wasteland. Trust us. No, really, it will change your life. Cure your flibitous. Make your dick yuuuge. It. Is. The. Greatest. Thing." All the poetry blogs are full of shit. Again, I think this shows just how uncut out I am for poetry, but it seemed less lucid that the ramblings of a bath salts imbiber. Maybe if I understood the context of it, like one of those Shakespeare primers which ploddingly explains every medieval pun--
    leaving you with the choice of either ignoring the explanation and apprehensively laughing along like you were told a joke in Swedish, or having the quick-inhalation-of-air-through-the-nose as the joke is explained to you.

It just wasn't interesting to me. And I don't think it's because I'm uncultured-- I mean, I love The Wire. T. S. Eliot just sucks.

 Well then, Adam, why bother at all? 

Here are two poems that I actually enjoyed-- I'm unsure about copyright, and too lazy to google it, so I'll just show excerpts:

The first is Robert Frost: Trial By Existence
    
    Even the bravest that are slain
     Shall not dissemble their surprise
    On waking to find valour reign
     Even as on Earth, in paradise
    And where they sought without the sword
     Wide fields of asphodel fore'er
    To find that the upmost reward
     Of daring should be still to dare

I just find it a very beautiful meditation on choice. Frost presents us with a scene of souls in Heaven, and they volunteer to go back to Earth, but only after God reads out the life they are volunteering for. I'm unsure why it has stuck with me-- it certainly has none of the pounding rhythm of Invictus-- but maybe it is has something to do with the quiet nobility of choosing a path for all its flaws.

The second one is from a more modern poet: Terrance Hayes. I haven't finished the collection yet, *Lighthead*, is what it is called. A lot of the poems go over my head, but he writes with vivid imagery

"Hieronymus's thighs shimmered like the wings of a teenage Cockroach beneath his skirt as a bullhorn of sheriff verbs like Stop! Freeze! and Fire! outlined us."

The poem is called All The Way Live. I'm not sure I understand it, but reading it was vivid and fun.

I think what those two poems have in common is that they both set their own context-- they are painting a scene or telling a story that is beautiful apart from the "moral" of the poem. They intrigue you with imagery, set a scene and tell a story. Frost gives you all the tools needed to understand him, and Hayes has a deft enough sense of story that you get carried along even if you don't neccesarily *get it*.

In contrast, Whitman assumes you already love America, you were just missing the words needed to express it, and Eliot assumes you have the time, patience and classical education required to piece together his jigsaw puzzle imagery. Both of
them assume you already have the context neccesary to understand them. Of course, the other two poets make assumptions, but Frost I feel is more timeless, dealing mostly with nature and the nature of choice, and Hayes is modern enough that I do have the context to understand him.  

Also, I didn't mention Shel Silverstien because I thought he would go without saying. We all read him as children and he is universally adored.


To sum up: I read some poetry and didn't like it. Maybe I should just stick to modern poetry and watch the last season of The Wire[^1]

[^1]: The reason I haven't finished it yet, is, despite enjoying it immensely I am at the part where McNulty is starting to fall apart again and it is just so hard to see him start his descent downward after watching him painfully rebuild himself.
