---
layout: post
---
Adam Green has published in many disciplines in Physics: from earthquake correlations, to ultra-stable laser cavity systems, to liquid crystals.

He is currently finishing his PhD at the University of Colorado under the supervision of world-renowned experimental physicist Noel Clark in the field of soft-matter physics. Specifically, he studies the physics of two-dimensional films of liquid crystals. It is a broad subject, ranging from stochastic processes/Brownian noise to two-dimensional hydrodynamics to soft-matter/light interaction. He's gained expertise in image analysis/image recognition, experimental design, scientific/data programming, scientific writing and presentations.

Before that, he spent a year completing his master's degree in Scott Diddam's lab at NIST, where he worked on designing and building an ultra-stable microcavity for laser frequency stability (think of it like a tuning fork but for lasers. The laser in this analogy is like a guitar string, apt to wander in frequency due to changes in the environment. By 'locking' it to the tuning fork, you can stabilize the frequency. This is needed for timing-sensitive applications like GPS, atomic clocks, clean microwave emission.)

During his undergrad, he also published in the field of Complexity Science (examining if earthquake magnitudes were correlated beyond the Guterburg-Ritcher law. They're not.) and Quantum Information (seeing if sandwiching an optical quantum memory in an optical cavity would improve it. It does.)

Adam Green is currently looking for job opportunities in industry with an emphasis on data-driven exploration. 
