# Using Latex for Custom CV 


I am looking for a job. I'd like to find a job in Europe, because I've always wanted to learn another language, and I want to experience a new culture. Because I am looking for a job, I am assembling a CV. Because I have Stockholm Syndrome, I am doing this in Latex[^1].

Latex is great if you want to typeset math. It is pretty shit if you want to do anything else. I just want to focus on one particular element of latex right now-- generating custom bibliographies. In a CV, you list all your publications. I was given the following advice by my advisor for this publication list:
1. Title first (all caps) so people can quickly see what you've been doing
2. Bold your name (so people don't have to go hunting through the author list to see where you are)

Doing this in latex turned out to be a huge pain, so I'll briefly recount my journey, in case anyone else feels they too need to prove something by only using Latex for everything. After crawling through stackoverflow for a while about generating custom bibtex entries, I came across several posts telling me that biblatex was the way of the future, and it was much nicer to work with as it was vanilla (whatever that means) latex markup. 




[^1]: Throughout this process, my girlfriend (who is a designer) has very gently pointed out that she could do everything that follows in InDesign in 30 minutes top. To which I reply, "Well, sure. But because this is in latex, it will operate at scale. So I could make, you know, hundreds of slightly different resumes, all using the same formatting.". 
